Document to consider four times for internal transformation (#118)
JuliaStats/StatsModels.jl: docs/src/internals.md

expression that's passed to the `@formula` macro and ending up generating a
numeric matrix when ultimately combined with a tabular data source:

> 1. "Syntax time" when only the surface syntax is available, during the defintion of `@formula`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. "Syntax time" when only the surface syntax is available, during the definition of `@formula`
```
But is "definition" the right word?

Author: yes I think definition is the rigth word
I am defining an `foo = @formula(y ~ x) `

Reviewer: Precisely, I would say this is *calling* `@formula`. Defining it would be `macro formula...`.

Author: Right, we are defining _the formula `foo`_ by calling the `@formula` macro.
Or to put it another way:
_The definition of the formula `foo` is written in the DSL that is processed by the `@formula` macro_

I am not sure on good compact wording.

Reviewer: I'd say "during the construction of the formula".

Author: ```suggestion
1. "Syntax time" when only the surface syntax is available, when the `@formula` macro is invoked.
```

Reviewer 2: @nalimilan is "invoking `@formula`" okay with you?

2. "Schema time" incorporates information about **data invariants** (types of each
   variable, levels of categorical variables, summary statistics for continuous
   variables) and the over all structure of the **data**, during the invocation of `schema`

> 3. "Semantics time" incorperates information about the **model type (context)**, and custom terms,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. "Semantics time" incorporates information about the **model type (context)**, and custom terms,
```

> during the call of `apply_schema`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   during the call of `apply_schema`
```

dataset is very large or truly streaming (online), then this may be
undesirable.  In such cases, you can construct a schema from instances of the
relevant concrete terms ([`ContinuousTerm`](@ref) or [`CategoricalTerm`](@ref)),
in a number of ways.

The constructors for concrete terms provide the maximum level of control.  A
`ContinuousTerm` stores values for the mean, standard deviation, minimum, and
maximum, while a `CategoricalTerm` stores the
[`StatsModels.ContrastsMatrix`](@ref) that defines the mapping from levels to
predictors, and these need to be manually supplied to the constructors:

!!! warning
    The format of the invariants stored in a term are implementation details and
    subject to change.

```jldoctest
julia> cont_a = ContinuousTerm(:a, 0., 1., -1., 1.)
a(continuous)

julia> cat_b = CategoricalTerm(:b, StatsModels.ContrastsMatrix(DummyCoding(), [:a, :b, :c]))
b(DummyCoding:3→2)

julia> sch1 = Dict(term(:a) => cont_a, term(:b) => cat_b)
Dict{Term,AbstractTerm} with 2 entries:
  a => a
  b => b
```

#### Semi-automatic: data subsets

A slightly more convenient method for generating a schema is provided by

> [`concrete_term`](@ref) the internal function which extracts invariants from a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [`concrete_term`](@ref) internal function, which extracts invariants from a
```

> data column and returns an concrete type.  This can be used to generate concrete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data column and returns a concrete type.  This can be used to generate concrete
```

```jldoctest
julia> cont_a2 = concrete_term(term(:a), [-1., 1.])
a(continuous)

julia> cat_b2 = concrete_term(term(:b), [:a, :b, :c])
b(DummyCoding:3→2)

julia> sch2 = Dict(term(:a) => cont_a2, term(:b) => cat_b2)
Dict{Term,AbstractTerm} with 2 entries:
  a => a
  b => b
```

Third, you could call `schema` on a `NamedTuple` of vectors (e.g., a
`Tables.ColumnTable`) with the necessary invariants:

```jldoctest
julia> sch3 = schema((a=[-1., 1], b=[:a, :b, :c]))
Dict{Any,Any} with 2 entries:
  a => a
  b => b
```

### Semantics time (`apply_schema`)

The next stage of life for a formula happens when _semantic_ information is
available, which includes the schema of the data to be transformed as well as
the _context_, or the type of model that will be fit.  This stage is implemented
by [`apply_schema`](@ref).  Among other things, this _instantiates_ placeholder
terms:

* `Term`s become `ContinuousTerm`s or `CategoricalTerm`s
* `ConstantTerm`s become `InterceptTerm`s
* Tuples of terms become [`MatrixTerm`](@ref)s where appropriate to explicitly indicate
  they should be concatenated into a single model matrix

> * Any model (context) specific interperation of the terms is made, including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Any model-specific (context-specific) interpretation of the terms is made, including
```
